---
layout: single
title: Rails, MySQL and ImageMagick on OS X Leopard
---

### {{ page.title }}

_EDIT: This most likely completely out of date. I'll update when I have the chance to do a clean install. Although that's likely to be on Snow Loepard._

Just a note to myself for getting my other machines Rails environments up and running properly. Basically a collection of info from the "Rails Weblog":http://weblog.rubyonrails.com/2007/10/26/today-is-leopard-day "Angry Fly":http://angry-fly.com/index.cfm/2007/10/26/Fix-for-MySQL-on-Leopard and "NullStyle":http://nullstyle.com/2007/10/27/how-to-build-imagemagick-and-install-rmagick-with-macports-on-mac-os-x-leopard/

Thanks guys!

Rails 1.2.3 comes pre-installed on Leopard. To get the rest of the environment up:

*Update gems*

<code>
sudo gem update
</code>

Install MySQL package
From the "usual place":http://dev.mysql.com/downloads/mysql/5.0.html

*Install the Ruby MySQL bindings*

<code>
sudo env RC_ARCHS=i386 gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config
</code>

Update: If you’re on PowerPC, instead of the above, use one of the following commands (depending if you’re 32 or 64bi). Thanks to Henry for the tip in the comments!

<code>
sudo env RC_ARCHS=ppc gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config
sudo env RC_ARCHS=ppc64 gem install mysql -- --with-mysql-config=/usr/local/mysql/bin/mysql_config
</code>

*Fix MySQL for Leopard*

<code>
cd /usr/local/mysql/lib
sudo mkdir mysql
cd mysql
sudo ln -s /usr/local/mysql/lib/lib* .
</code>

Start MySQL with: (the sys prefs box doesn’t work yet)

<code>
sudo /usr/local/mysql/bin/safe_mysqld
</code>

*Now make a link to the MySQL socket*

<code>
sudo mkdir /var/mysql/
sudo ln -s /tmp/mysql.sock /var/mysql/mysql.sock
</code>

*Install MacPorts*

From "here":http://www.macports.org/

*Install ImageMagick + RMagick*

<code>
sudo port install tiff -macosx
sudo port install ImageMagick
sudo gem install rmagick
</code>

I think that hits the main things that tripped me up. I’ll update if anything else crops up.